SCIENTIFIC_NAME	FAMILY	CONSERVATION_ACT_1992	EPBC_ACT_1999	AUSTRALIAN	PERCENTAGE	HABITAT	SPECIES_PROFILE							
Acacia concurrens	Mimosaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.79	Coastal areas eucalypt forest and woodland	"Acacia concurrens, commonly known as Black wattle or Curracabah, is a tall shrub endemic to eastern Australia, growing to a height of up to 10m. The botanic name concurrens describes the converging primary veins on the phyllodes (modified leaf stems which function as leaf). Bright yellow rod-shaped flowers are seen from late winter to early spring."							
Acacia disparrima subsp. disparrima	Mimosaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.76	"Open forest and woodlands margins of sub-tropical, closed forest types and along disturbed roadsides."	"Hickory wattle, Acacia disparrima is a tall shrub endemic to coastal and near-coastal areas of eastern Australia. Growing to a height of up to 12 m this shrub establishes rapidly making is popular is rehabilitation projects.  It is commonly associated with open forests, woodlands, the margins of sub-tropical, closed forest types and along disturbed roadsides. This shrub forms pale yellow, to lemon yellow sweetly scented flower spikes from January to May followed by woody seed pods. "							
Acacia fimbriata	Mimosaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.35	Open forest	"Acacia fimbriata, Brisbane golden wattle is tall shrub endemic to eastern Australia, growing to a height of up to 7m. It is also referred to as the Fringed wattle because of the microscopic hairs along the phyllodes (modified leaf stems)."							
Acacia harpophylla	Mimosaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	open woodlands on flat and gently undulating terrain on heavy and relatively fertile clay and clay-loam soils	"Brigalow, Acacia harpophylla is a small to medium-sixed tree (12-20 m) which once covered an extensive area of eastern Australia.  The brigalow community has been extensively cleared for cropping, mainly wheat production. This species of wattle is best known for its ability to regrow from root suckers. If the trunk it cut or burnt to the ground this species can regenerate rapidly from the base."							
Acacia leiocalyx	Mimosaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Open forest and woodlands	"Black wattle, is a widespread shrub endemic to eastern Australia, growing to a height of up to 6m.  The short-lived wattle is closely related to a number of other identified by its smooth, sharply angular, red-brown branches. Black wattle is used as a food for livestock in times of drought. "							
Acacia maidenii	Mimosaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.88	Dry Eucalypt Forest and Rainforest margin	Maiden's Wattle is a tall shrub endemic to eastern Australia from Queensland to Victoria.  This fast-growing shrub can grow at a rate of 1m per year and live for more than 30 years. An attractive ornamental tree commonly growing as a street tree Maiden’s Wattle produces pale yellow flowers up to 6 cm long in clusters of two and three.							
Acacia podalyriifolia	Mimosaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Open forest and woodland	"Queensland silver wattle, Acacia podalyriifolia is a tall shrub endemic to QLD and north-east NSW, growing to a height of up to 6m.  Widely cultivated as an ornamental tree this shrub has naturalised  in Malaysia, Africa, India and South America where it is considered as an environmental weed.  "							
Acmena ingens	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Red apple, Syzygium ingens is a medium-to-large rainforest tree endemic to SEQ and northern NSW. The dark red fruit makes it a popular tree for attracting birds and other fruit-eating wildlife, and when ripe is also known to be edible (but sour)."							
Acronychia oblongifolia	Rutaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest and rainforest margin	"White aspen, Acronychia oblongifolia is a rainforest tree which grows naturally along the coast line of eastern Australia. Small white flowers appear from Summer to early Autumn followed by edible yellow fruits which taste like lemon rind. "							
Acronychia pauciflora	"Rutaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Dry and subtropical rainforest	"Soft acronychia is a shrub to small tree reaching 10 m high. Occurring from New South Wales to Queensland soft acronchia grows in subtropical rainforest, dry rainforest, wine thickest and Brigalow scrub. New growth is red to blackish and leaves are aromatic when crushed. "							
Acronychia wilcoxiana	Rutaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Acronychia wilcoxiana, the Silver aspen  is a rainforest tree in the citrus family, found in eastern Australia. A tree to 15 metres  in height, with an appealing canopy of dark green leaves. Small white flowers appear from the leaf axils, in the months of January to May."							
Aegiceras corniculatum	Primulaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.61	"Mangrove, muddy flats, coasts"	"The Black or River mangrove is a species of mangrove with a coastal and estuarine distribution ranging from India through to South East Asia, southern China, New Guinea and Australia.  Growing up to 7 metres high this species of mangrove produces small white flowers all year round. Mangroves have several adaptations to live in saline environments including the ability to extrude salt by glads n the leaves which accumulates over time resulting in a fine film of white salt crystals on the leaf surface.    "							
Agathis atropurpurea	Araucariaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rain forest on mountain ridges	"The Black kauri, Agathis atropurpurea is a large rainforest tree to 50 metres tall.  Endemic to North East Queensland it has been impacted by logging and is now protected due to decline.  Bark of younger trees is distinctly blackish-purple however older trees develop bark that is reddish brown and somewhat flaky."							
Agathis microstachya	Araucariaceae	Near threatened	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest	The bull kauri is one of three Agathis species in Australia others being the Queensland kauri (Agathis robusta) and the black kauri (Agathis robusta) which are all located within Sherwood Arboretum. Bull kauris are restricted to the Atherton Tableland growing in areas of high rainfall with altitudes between 400 and 900 metres.							
Agathis robusta	Araucariaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	7.99	Rainforest	"Sherwood Arboretum was officially opened on World Forestry Day, 21 March 1925, with a planting of 72 Queensland kauri pine (Agathis robusta) along a central promenade named Sir Matthew Nathan Avenue in honour of the Queensland Governor.  This tree was planted by Sir Matthew Nathan. Sir Matthew Nathan was a graduate of the Royal Military Academy, Sir Matthew also was Governor of Hong Kong and three African countries. Nathan accepted the offer of the governorship of Queensland in June 1920.  After his appointment as Governor expired, Nathan left Queensland for retirement in Somerset, England. He died in England in 1939."							
Akania bidwillii	Akaniaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest and coastal ranges	"The Turnipwood, Akania bidwillii grows throughout the warm temperate rainforests of New South Wales to the subtropical rainforests of South East Queensland.  Although widespread, it is not common in the wild.  This attractive small tree can be identified by its glossy green leaflets with a pale underside.  Fragrant white to pink flowers develop in spring followed by bright yellow fruit held in red capsules.    "							
Albizia lebbeck	Fabaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.35	Rainforest and dry vine forest	"The Indian Siris, Albizia lebbeck is a deciduous, wide spreading tree endemic to the tropical regions of Asia, Africa and Northern Australia.  Due to its wide distribution, this fast-growing tree has been utilized by different cultures in many ways.  Some of these uses include medicine for coughs and colds, treatments for skin aliments as well as fish poison and dye made from the bark.  The tree itself is grown for timber and shade. "							
Alectryon connatus	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Dry rainforest and littoral rainforest	"The Grey bird’s eye, Alectryon connatus is a shrub to small tree that can reach up to 6 metres in height.  It is found in dry and littoral rainforest along the coast of Queensland and New Guinea.  It is a bird and butterfly attracting plant providing both food and shelter to many species including the Green Cat Bird which gained its name from its cat like meowing."							
Alectryon coriaceus	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Beach alectryon, Alectryon coriaceus is a bushy shrub or small tree growing to 6 metres in height.  Sometimes referred to as Beach bird’s eye due to the glossy black fruit that emerge from its eatable bright red covering, it is an excellent food source for local birds.  This rainforest tree can be found growing near the coastline from Newcastle to Maryborough.  The name coriaceus comes from the Latin work meaning leather like.  This is in reference to the leathery feel of the leaves."							
Alectryon subcinereus	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Wild Quince, Alectryon subcinereus is a small tree usually found growing in rainforest.  It is widespread in coastal districts from Victoria to Queensland. The attractive rounded tree can reach a height of 10 metres and bears pinkish white flowers, both male and female flowers grow on the same tree.   A host plant to many butterfly species including the Pencilled-blue, Glistening Blue and Eastern or Bronze Flat. "							
Alectryon tomentosus	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.79	Rainforest	"The Hairy alectryon, Alectryon tomentosus is a small native tree ranging from the dry and subtropical rainforests of the Hunter Valley to South East Queensland.  Growing to 5 metres, this hardy, drought resistant tree can be identified by its hairy leaves and attractive coppery new growth. It is a host plant for various butterfly larvae."							
Allocasuarina torulosa	Casuarinaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Wet sclerophyll and rainforest margins	"The Forest oak or  River Oak, Allocasuarina torulosa is a tiber tree prized by woodworkers and woodturners as a rare and exotic timber, often used in wood turnings, knife handles and other specialist items."							
Alphitonia excelsa	Rhamnaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.79	Open forest	"Red ash or soap tree, Alphitonia excelsa  is an Australian ornamental tree, with some specimens of high visual appeal. It may be used in amenity planting as a street tree providing shelter. It has also been used in boat-building and cabinet making."							
Alstonia constricta	Apocynaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Eucalypt and Acacia woodlands	"Alstonia constricta produces a white latex, and contains several alkaloids, several of which have medicinal potential, including reserpine."							
Alstonia scholaris	Apocynaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Lowland rain forest	"Devil's tree, Alstonia scholaris is a large tree up to 40 metres high found naturally through tropical parts of Australia, India, China, South East Asia and New Guinea.  The glossy green, leather like leaves are grey on the underside and occur in whorls, an arrangement of leaves that radiate from a single point.  The Devils tree has been utilized for a wide variety of uses including traditional medicine, household tools and utensils, floats and coffins.  "							
Angophora floribunda	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Alluvial soils on floodplains and along watercourses	"The Rough-barked apple, Angophora floribunda is a medium tree growing to a height of 30 meters.  Widely distributed in South-Eastern Queensland, Eastern New South Wales into Victoria it is a variable species depending on its growing location.  The name floribunda comes from the Latin meaning abundant flowers which are utilized by a number of native animals and insects including flying foxes, birds, beetles, butterflies"							
Angophora subvelutina	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Open forest and woodlands	"The Broad-leaved apple, Angophora subvelutina is a medium-sized tree to 20 metres.  Occuring naturally in woodland in subcoastal New South Wales, the Broad-leaved apple can be identified by its blue green foliage and flaky grey bark.  Angophora is genus myrtle family, Myrtaceae, it is one of three genus known as gum trees."							
Anthocarapa nitidula	Meliaceae	Not listed	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Incense cedar, Anthocarapa nitidula is a large to medium rainforest tree. Anthocarapa nitidula occurs from far northern Queensland to North Eastern NSW as well as Malesia, the Solomon Islands, Vanuatu and New Caledonia. Freshly broken twigs emit a faint odour like that of onions."							
Aphananthe philippinensis	Cannabaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.35	Rainforest	"Native elm, Aphananthe philippinensisis timber tree was popular for making tool handles. "							
Araucaria bidwillii	Araucariaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.53	Rainforest	"Fossil records show that the bunya pine are ancient trees which once covered much of eastern Australia. This tree was most likely food and shelter for dinosaurs. Today the bunya pine is relatively scare endemic to only three places: the Bunya Mountains, the Blackall Range and Mount Molloy.  While called the bunya pine this tree is not a pine but a member of the family Araucariaceae.  The bunya pines have both male and female cones. It takes up to fifteen months for the cones to ripe and they can weigh up to 10 kilograms. For public safety the cones are removed annually from this tree."							
Araucaria cunninghamii var. cunninghamii	Araucariaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.93	Rainforest and dry vine forest	"Hoop pine, Araucaria cunninghamii can live up to 450 years, growing very slowly (23 mm each year when mature). It occurs on drier sites in rainforests, in places that are rocky or have soils with relatively low fertility.  The scientific name cunninghamii honours Allan Cunningham, the botanist and explorer who first collection specimens in the 1820s. "							
Argyrodendron actinophyllum subsp. actinophyllum	Malvaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest	"The Black booyong, Argyrodendron actinophyllum subsp. Actinophyllum is a large subtropical rainforest tree to 50 metres.  The Black booyong has a thick buttresses which help support these large trees in strong wind and assist in nutrient take up from the soil. The branches of these large trees often provide a home for epiphytic plants such as orchids and ferns.  "							
Argyrodendron actinophyllum subsp. diversifolium	Malvaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Wet and dry rainforest	"The Mackay tulip oak, Argyrodendron actinophyllum subsp. diversifolium is a tall tree reaching up to 50 metres in height with a buttressed base native to Queensland. It can be found growing naturally in the Paluma Ranges near Townsville and around the Mackay region. It has a large crown with dark, glossy leaves, and small creamy flowers borne in autumn. "							
Argyrodendron perlatum	Malvaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Red Tulip Oak, Argyrodendron perlatum is a buttressed rainforest tree to 35 metres.  Native to Far North Queensland it can be found from Cooktown to Tully.  Glossy green leaves are silver with dotted copper scales on the underside.  Fragrant flowers develop to produces a type of dry papery fruit designed to be spread by wind called a samara."							
Argyrodendron polyandrum	Malvaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Brown tulip oak, Argyrodendron polyandrum a native buttressed rainforest tree growing to 45 metres in height.  Endemic to Queensland, it can be found in seasonally dry rainforest from Cape York to Central Eastern Queensland.  Creamy yellow to brown flowers produce an unpleasant smell when they bloom mid-year followed by samara, a type of dry fruit designed to be spread by wind."							
Argyrodendron trifoliolatum	Malvaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest	"White Booyong, Argyrodendron trifoliolatum is a large timber tree reaching up to 40 meters in height. Found in subtropical and dry rainforests in Queensland, NSW and New Guinea."							
Atalaya hemiglauca	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Widespread in mixed open forest	"Arlperrampwe tree gum is found on the trunk and branches of Atalaya hemiglauca in big globs. Some of it runs down the tree as its hanging there. For bushfood it is collected and made into a lump and kneaded until soft, and is then eaten."							
Atalaya salicifolia	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Dry rainforest	"The Brush whitewood, Atalaya salicifolia is a small tree growing up to 10 metres in height found in dry rainforests of tropical and subtropical Australia, New Guinea and Malesia. The shiny green compound leaves feature 2-4 leaflets which are long and narrow when mature. Masses of small white flowers develop in spring and summer followed by three-winged seeds. "							
Atractocarpus fitzalanii	Rubiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Native gardenia, Atractocarpus fitzalanii is a  shrub or small tree now often cultivated for the showy perfumed flowers. It maintains a good shape and is adaptable and easy to grow. This species is one of the few native plants known to have been used as an aphrodisiac by the aborigines."							
Auranticarpa rhombifolia	Pittosporaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest	"The Diamond leaf pittosporum, Auranticarpa rhombifolia is a rainforest tree of eastern Australia. Known as the diamond leaf pittosporum, this tree is planted in many parts of Australia as an ornamental. The white flowers and orange fruit make it a most appealing street or garden tree."							
Avicennia marina	Acanthaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Intertidal zones of estuarine areas	"The Grey mangrove, Avicennia marina is one of the most widespread mangroves growing along the coast of Australia.  Reaching up to 25 metres high, it can be found along riverbeds, tidal estuaries and brackish areas in soft sand or mud.   Seeds from the Grey mangrove germinate while still attached to the parent plant, allowing a better chance them to take hold in challenging conditions.  Mangroves play several vital roles in our ecosystem including stabilizing banks, protecting land from storm surges as well as providing food and habitat for water birds, bees, juvenile fish, crabs and oysters. "							
Backhousia citriodora	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.44	Coastal forests	"The Lemon myrtle, Backhousia citriodora is endemic to the subtropical rainforests of Central and South-Eastern Queensland.  Reaching 15 metres in height, the aromatic leaves of this ornamental tree contain a high concentration of citral, the chemical that gives lemons their fragrance. The leaves of the Lemon myrtle can be used as a culinary herb for cooking.  It is currently being researched for its highly medicinal properties.  "							
Backhousia myrtifolia	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Coastal forests	"Grey myrtle, Backhousia myrtifolia is a native hardwood that was popularised as a bushfood in the late 1980s. Its leaves give off a cinnamon fragrance when rubbed or crushed. "							
Banksia integrifolia subsp. integrifolia	Proteaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Coastal open forest	"The Coast Banksia, Banksia integrifolia subsp. Integrifolia is an upright tree to 20 metres.  It has a wide distribution through coastal areas of South-East Queensland to Victoria. This hardy species produces pale-yellow flowers in late summer through to winter.  The pale colour helps to guide night feeding animals and insects to its nectar rich blooms. "							
Barklya syringifolia	Fabaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Dry rainforest and vine thickets	"The Crown of gold, Barklya syringifolia is the floral emblem for the central Queensland town of Gladstone. This attractive dry rainforest tree can be identified by its glossy heart shaped leaves, bronze new growth and large clusters of dense yellow flower spikes in early summer.  "							
Barringtonia acutangula	Elaeocarpaceae	Least concern	Not listed		0.09	Coastal wetlands	"The Freshwater mangrove, Barringtonia acutangula is a wetland plant native to coastal Southern Asia and Northern Australasia.  This medium size tree has many traditional medical uses due to its antibacterial and antifungal properties.  In some cultures, the young leaves are consumed as food source.  The bright red pendulous flowers attract various birds and butterflies. "							
Blepharocarya involucrigera	Anacardiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The North Queensland bollygum, Blepharocarya involucrigera is a large rainforest tree occurring in far north Queensland.  This species is known for its decorative timber that has been said to be passed off as more expensive varieties of wood by industrious timber workers.  "							
Brachychiton acerifolius	Sterculiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.70	Rainforest	"The iconic Australian Illawarra flame tree, Brachychiton acerifolius has been idolized in song, literature and poetry for its masses of crimson flowers in late spring to summer when the tree is totally bare of foliage. “How to live, I said, as the flame tree lives? - to know what the flame tree knows: to be - prodigal of my life as that wild tree - and wear my passion so.”   The Flame Tree – Judith Wright"							
Brachychiton australis	Sterculiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.53	Rainforest and dry vine forest and thickets	"Resourceful Indigenous people found many uses for the Broad-leafed bottle tree, Brachychiton australis.  Fibre collected from the tree was used to make nets for catching birds and fish.  Bush bandages, twine, rope and baskets were also produced from the wooden textile.  "							
Brachychiton bidwillii	Sterculiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest	"The Little kurrajong, Brachychiton bidwillii is a highly variable species.  Found in Queensland rainforests between Bowen and the New South Wales border, height and flower shape differ depending on the location it is grown.   Pink bell-shaped flowers can grow directly from trunk as well as from branches and twigs in spring and summer.  "							
Brachychiton compactus	Sterculiaceae	Near threatened	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Semi-evergreen notophyll-microphyll vine thickets or low vine forests	"The Whitsunday bottle tree, Brachychiton compactus is a semi-deciduous tree native to northeastern Australia. It is only found in the vicinity of Proserpine in Central Queensland.  This very limited distribution put the species under threat.  As with other bottle trees this species can store a significant amount of water between the inner bark and the trunk enabling the tree to survive during extended dry periods. "							
Brachychiton discolor	Sterculiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.79	Rainforest and dry vine forest	"Lacebark tree, Brachychiton discolor is a semi-decidous tree up to 30 metres high found in moist and dry rainforest from central New South Wales to southern Queensland. "							
Brachychiton populneus subsp. populneus	Sterculiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest and dry vine forest	"The Kurrajong, Brachychiton populneus subsp. Populneus can be found naturally to the western side of the Great Dividing Range from the NSW border to North Queensland.  Trees along cattle routes have often been lopped to feed stock during drought.  "							
Brachychiton populneus subsp. trilobus	Sterculiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest and dry vine forest	"The Kurrajong, Brachychiton populneus subsp. trilobus is a medium-sized tree growing up to 20 metres tall with an inland distribution in semi-arid regions of Queensland and New South Wales. Valued for its hardiness and tolerance of dry conditions, it typically grows stout with long alternating three-lobed leaves. White bell-shaped flowers are streaked purple-brown within the inner flower tube and are followed by woody boat-shaped seed capsules. Ground-up seeds have been said to be a useful coffee substitute when brewed. "							
Brachychiton rupestris	Sterculiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.88	Dry vine thickets	"The narrow-leaved bottle, Brachychiton rupestris is distinct by its large, bloated trunks and fine foliage. This species is endemic to central Queensland and northern New South Wales found in dry rainforest thickets. The seeds, roots, bark and stems have been traditionally used as a food sourced for Aboriginal people. The lacy inner bark was an important fibre source which was used for twine, dilly bags and fishing nets."							
Brachychiton sp. Ormeau	Sterculiaceae	Near threatened	Critically Endangered	Yes	0.18	Riparian rainforest	This iconic rainforest tree has a range of less than 1 square kilometre with only 161 individual trees. They grow to be over 120 years old and occur along creeks and rivers around the Gold Coast area.							
Breynia oblongifolia	Phyllanthaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Coastal tropical rainforests,  cool Eucalypt woodlands  and arid Acacia woodlands"	"An open small to medium shrub, the Coffee bush, Breynia oblongifolia can be found naturally throughout warmer parts of Australia.  Growing along the edges of rainforests and moist gullies it is a valuable host plant for the common grass yellow butterfly.  Red berries that turn black when ripe are a source of bush tucker."							
Buckinghamia celsissima	Proteaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest	"Ivory curl tree, Buckinghamia celsissima is an attractive medium size tree.   The long spikes of creamy white flowers provide food for birds, bees and other nectivorous creatures in summer.  It has been utilized in Brisbane as a street tree due to its low maintenance, heavy flowering and compact size."							
Cadellia pentastylis	Surianaceae	Vulnerable	Vulnerable	Yes	0.09	Semi-evergreen vine thickets and sclerophyll vegetation	"A relic of the Gondwanan rainforests, the Ooline, Cadellia pentastylis has origins which date up to 1.6 million years ago.  Extensive land clearing for agriculture and grazing through Central Qld and NE NSW has reduced the numbers to half in some areas.  This medium-sized spreading tree is now listed as vulnerable under the Nature Conservation Act and is heavily protected by law.   "							
Callitris columellaris	Cupressaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Open forest and margins of littoral rainforest	"White cypress pine, Callitris columellaris is extensively used in building construction fencing telegraph poles.  The wood of this tree is  resistance to termite attack and high resistance to fungal decay. This plant is very flammable. "							
Callitris rhomboidea	Cupressaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Open woodland	"Growing across Australia in a variety of conditions, the Oyster Bay Pine, Callitris rhomboidei is a highly ornamental and drought tolerant tree.  Scale like foliage can take on a purple tinge in cooler weather and will grow in a traditional conical shape if left unpruned."							
Cananga odorata	Annonaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Essential oil from the Ylang-ylang, Cananga odorata is one of the most widely used fragrances in the world.  The oil which is extracted from the flowers, leaves and fruit are also used to treat a range of medicinal complaints from gout to malaria. "							
Capparis arborea	Capparaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Rainforest; usually riverine, littoral or the drier rainforests"	"Caper bush, Capparis arborea is a small tree occurring in eastern Australian rainforests.  Many sharp protective spines grow on younger plants but will reduce in numbers with age.  The Caper bush produces a guava like yellow fruit in summer. These edible fruits were a food source for Aboriginal people. "							
Cassia brewsteri	Fabaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	"Open forest, dry vine forest and woodland"	"The Leichhardt Bean, Cassia brewsteri occurs in open forest and woodland throughout eastern Queensland.  Showy bright yellow 30cm flowers hang from the trees in summer followed by even longer ribbed seed pods.  "							
Castanospermum australe	Fabaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.05	Rainforest	"The Black bean, Castanospermum australe is an attractive rainforest tree ranging from South East Queensland to Northern New South Wales.  Masses of red and yellow flowers attract birds in Summer.  The fine-grained timber is used for furniture and cabinet making.  "							
Casuarina cunninghamiana	Casuarinaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.40	Riparian forest	"River she-oak, Casuarina cunninghamiana naturally occurs from the Northern Territory and northern Queensland to eastern New South Wales.  This evergreen tree which grows to 35 m tall has fine greyish needle-like foliage.  Naturally found along stream banks and swampy areas it is an important tree for stabilising riverbanks and preventing soil erosion.  The foliage can be used as cattle fodder and this species has been introduced into several other countries for the purposed of agroforestry. "							
Casuarina glauca	Casuarinaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.05	Tidal estuaries	"The Swamp oak, Casuarina glauca is a large she-oak ranging from central Queensland to southern New South Wales.  It has become naturalised in the Everglades in Florida where it is considered a weed.  Fossils of Casurina pollen that have been found are dated over 60 million years old."							
Chionanthus ramiflora	"Oleaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.61	Rainforest	"Native to North Queensland rainforest, the Northern olive, Chionanthus ramiflora is a medium tree to 25 metres.  Small whitish yellow flowers are followed by a black olive like fruit.  Seeded propagate readily making this tree a potential weed in areas outside its native habitat.  "							
Citrus X sinensis	"Rutaceae	"	Not listed	Not listed	No	0.09		"The Orange tree, Citrus X sinensis is one of the largest agricultural crops worldwide.  The fruit of the Orange is a type of modified berry known as a hesperidium.   The leathery rind containing numerous oil glands which can be processed commercially into essential oils for cleaning products and food.   "							
Commersonia bartramia	Malvaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest margins	"The Brown Kurrajong, Commersonia bartramia is a small but fast-growing pioneer tree native to dry and riverine rainforest.  Masses of creamy white flowers appear in Summer bringing with them nectar loving birds and butterflies.  Its heart shaped foliage has been used for stock fodder.  "							
Corymbia citriodora subsp. citriodora	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Open forest	"Spotted gum, Corymbia citriodora is a tall tree growing to a height of 35 meters. It has a pale, uniform or slightly mottled bark with narrow-leaves. There are two subspecies of Corymbia citriodora. The leaves of the subspecies Corymbia citriodora subsp. citriodora smell strongly of lemons when crushed giving it the common name lemon-scented gum.  This subspecies variegata lacks the lemon-scented leaves.  Corymbia citriodora is an important forest tree, in demand for structural timber and for honey production. It also is popular in horticulture both within Australia and overseas."							
Corymbia citriodora subsp. variegata	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.32	Open forest	"Spotted gum, Corymbia citriodora is a tall tree growing to a height of 35 meters. It has a pale, uniform or slightly mottled bark with narrow-leaves. There are two subspecies of Corymbia citriodora. The leaves of the subspecies Corymbia citriodora subsp. citriodora smell strongly of lemons when crushed giving it the common name lemon-scented gum.  This subspecies variegata lacks the lemon-scented leaves.  Corymbia citriodora is an important forest tree, in demand for structural timber and for honey production. It also is popular in horticulture both within Australia and overseas."							
Corymbia citriodora subsp. variegata/camaldulensis	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Open forest	"Spotted gum, Corymbia citriodora is a tall tree growing to a height of 35 meters. It has a pale, uniform or slightly mottled bark with narrow-leaves. There are two subspecies of Corymbia citriodora. The leaves of the subspecies Corymbia citriodora subsp. citriodora smell strongly of lemons when crushed giving it the common name lemon-scented gum.  This subspecies variegata lacks the lemon-scented leaves.  Corymbia citriodora is an important forest tree, in demand for structural timber and for honey production. It also is popular in horticulture both within Australia and overseas."							
Corymbia eximia	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Open forest	"The Yellow bloodwood, Corymbia eximia occurs naturally around areas of New South Wales with high rainfall and sandstone soils.  Growing to 20 metres in good conditions, it is easily distinguished from others due to its yellowy brown bark.  Creamy white flowers feed nectar loving animals and insects.  This species can survive for over 100 years.  "							
Corymbia henryi	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Open forest	"The large-leaved spotted gum, Corymbia henryi is an attractive eucalypt with pinkish dimpled bark.  It inhabits sandy soils in fire prone dry forest.  Ranging from coastal New South Wales to South East Queensland this medium to large tree is part of the bloodwood family.     "							
Corymbia intermedia	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.88	Open forest	"The Pink bloodwood, Corymbia intermedia grows naturally on a narrow belt of open forest between North Queensland and New South Wales. Reaching up to 30 metres in height, it has rough tessellated bark with slightly glossy or dull green leaves that are paler on the underside. Perfumed cream flowers are borne during summer. The dark pink to reddish heartwood is a hard and durable timber used for building bridges and fences. "							
Corymbia leichhardtii	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Tropical and subtropical sclerophyll woodlands	"Leichhardt's rustyjacket, Corymbia leichhardtii grows to a height of 18 metres, from North Queensland to Central Queensland. A member of the bloodwood family, it can be found in tropical and subtropical sclerophyll woodland.  The adult leaves are thin, dull, grey-green in a lanceolate shape, a narrow oval leaf tapering to a point at the end.  Tessellated, thick brown to yellow-brown or orange bark covers the trunk.  "							
Corymbia tessellaris	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.76	Open forest and woodland	"The Moreton Bay ash, Corymbia tessellaris is widespread throughout Australia and Papua New Guinea. Growing to 10-20 tall this tree is very noticeable by its collar of tessellated bark on the lower section of the trunk.  A hardy tree resistant to strong winds, heat and drought it is planted as a street tree and in parks and gardens.   The timber from this tree has been used for making spears and in bridge construction. "							
Corymbia torelliana	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Open forest and rainforest margins	"The Cadaghi, Corymbia torelliana is a fast-growing tree endemic to the coastal ranges of North Queensland. Growing up to 30 metres tall, it has smooth grey-green bark for most of its length, with mature trees developing a rough tessellated grey-brown stocking on the lower trunk. While it’s a magnificent tree in its natural distribution, elsewhere in Australia it has become a highly invasive weed dominating areas of bushland and inhibiting the growth of native species. "							
Corynocarpus rupestris subsp. arborescens	Corynocarpaceae	Vulnerable	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Notophyll vineforest	"Corynocarpus rupestris subsp. arborescens is a vulnerable native species growing in dry and subtropical rainforest and vine thickets in South East Queensland. Found mostly on dry stony slopes, it can grow into a tall shrub or small tree up to 12 metres. Green leathery leaves are arranged alternately or in whorls, with toothed margins while juvenile that become entire. Small white flowers are borne in clusters from October to November followed by glossy red fruit. "							
Cryptocarya hypospodia	Lauraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Wet and dry rainforest	"Glossy laurel, Cryptocarya hypospodia is a timber tree reaching 30 metres in height. It naturally occurs in Eastern Australia and New Guinea.  In Queensland, it occurs in rainforests of various types, particularly gallery forests on soils derived from a variety of rock types. The bark of the tree is bark usually nondescript; however, it does emit an odour, often described as peppery. Flowers are unpleasantly perfumed and followed up dark globular shaped fruit. The fruit is a major food source for birds in the wild. "							
Cryptocarya laevigata	Lauraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest								
Cryptocarya mackinnoniana	Lauraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest								
Cryptocarya obovata	Lauraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest	"The Pepperberry tree or white walnut, Cryptocarya obovata is a large rainforest tree which can reach 30 m tall.  Found naturally in dry rainforests and along moist scrubby watercourses it occurs from Gympie and the Bunya Mountains in Queensland to Port Stephens in New South Wales.  The trunk of the tree is straight and often buttressed at the base.  Cream coloured flowers form from February to May followed up black globular drupe ribbed fruit.  The fruit is relished by birds. "							
Cryptocarya triplinervis	Lauraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest	"Three veined laurel, Cryptocarya triplinervis is a rainforest tree which reaches 20 metres in height. This tree gets its name from the three veined leaves with are easily seen. The mid vein which is depressed on the upper side and raised on the lower side of the leaf. Net veins are easily seen on the underside of the leaf. "							
Cupaniopsis anacardioides	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.05	"Rainforest, dry vine forest and open forest"	"Tuckeroo, Cupaniopsis anacardioides is a rainforest tree native to eastern and northern Australia reaching up to 10 metres tall. Used commonly as an ornamental or street tree it forms flowers from May to July followed by orange to yellow three lobed fruit.  The fruit are consuming by many birds including the Australasian figbird, olive-backed oriole and pied currawong."							
Cupaniopsis parvifolia	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.44	Dry vine thickets and open forest	"The small leaved tuckeroo, Cupaniopsis parvifolia is a dry rainforest tree growing up to 20 m tall.  This hardy tree is suitable for drier sites however slow growing. Cream flowers form from September to October. Fruit follows flowering the capsule is yellow, rough-skinned, 3 lobed and densely hairy inside."							
Cupaniopsis tomentella	Sapindaceae	Vulnerable	Vulnerable	Yes	0.09	Vine thickets	"Boonah Tuckeroo, is a tree to 10 m tall. It  is known only from an area between Boonah and Ipswich in south-eastern Queensland. It grows in vine thickets predominantly on fertile clay soils. These areas have been extensively cleared for agriculture and close settlement over the last 150 years, and the only seven known occurrences are confined to small isolated remnants on scree slopes and roadsides. "							
Davidsonia jerseyana	Cunoniaceae	Least concern	Endangered	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Mullumbimby Plum, Davidsonia jerseyana is considered endangered in the wild however also widely cultivated by domestic and commercial gardeners.  It produces pleasantly sour red-fleshed fruits that are high in antioxidants and vitamins."							
Davidsonia johnsonii	Cunoniaceae	Endangered	Endangered	Yes	0.18	Rainforest	"Davidson's plum, Davidsonia johnsonii is a small rainforest tree native to eastern Australia.  Threatened in the wild due to habitat loss this tree is best known for its sour fruit which are popular in jams. Plants take at least six years to produce fruit the fruit are high in antioxidants and vitamins. "							
Davidsonia pruriens	Cunoniaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest	"Davidson's Plum, Davidsonia pruriens is a medium-sized rainforest tree from northern Queensland.  It produces edible dark burgundy colored fruit in large clusters from the branches or the trunk."							
Delonix regia	Fabaceae	Not listed	Not listed	No	0.53	Dry deciduous forests	"The Royal poinciana, Delonix regia is a popular ornamental tree noted for ites fern-like leaves and flamboyant display or orange-red flowers over summer.  Its native to Madagascar’s dry deciduous forests where it is endangered in the wild.  This tree has been widely cultivated and has naturalised in many locations where it can be considered an environmental weed. "							
Denhamia disperma	Celastraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Seasonally dry coastal and near coastal vine forest and thickets	"Orange bush or the Orange boxwood, Denhamia disperma occurs from North Eastern Queensland southwards to North-eastern New South Wales. Growing in direr rain forest and monsoon forest this tree derives its common name from its bark which has a thin orange layer visible when the twig bark is scraped with a knife."							
Diploglottis australis	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest	"The native tamarind, Diploglottis australis is a rainforest tree native to eastern Australia.  Reaching a height of 35 metres this tall tree grows in a variety of different rainforests, on basaltic and rich alluvial soils. Creamy brown flowers form in Spring, maturing from October to January. The fleshy yellow-orange fruit is sour to taste, but like the Asian Tamarind, may be enjoyed raw or processed into jams, jellies, sauces, candies and drinks."							
Diploglottis campbellii	Sapindaceae	Endangered	Endangered	Yes	0.35	Rainforest	"The Small-leaved tamarind, Diploglottis campbellii is a rainforest tree northern New South Wales and south-eastern Queensland reaching a height of 30 metres tall. This species is listed as Endangered at both a State and National level known to occur in small clusters at 25 known sites, 20 in New South Wales and five in Queensland. The total population is estimated to be 106 mature trees plus immature trees, saplings and seedings. Each site consists of less than 20 adults, with only nine sites actively recruiting seedlings and juveniles. Clearing and fragmentation of rainforest habitat is believed to be the primary reason for decline and subsequent sustained low population numbers."							
Dysoxylum fraserianum	Meliaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest								
Dysoxylum rufum	Meliaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Rusty Bean or Hairy rosewood, Dysoxylum rufum is a rainforest tree found in eastern Australia.  Typically reaching 10 metres however able to grow up to 30 metres this tree is harvested from the wild for its timber.  It usually an understorey tree, though sometimes growing into the canopy, found in subtropical, dry and tropical forests. A fast-growing and tolerant of full sun and shade, this is an excellent regeneration tree. "							
Elaeocarpus angustifolius	Elaeocarpaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest	"Blue quandong, Elaeocarpus angustifolius produces round and blue fruit which are eaten whole by cassowaries, woompoo pigeon and spectacled flying foxes."							
Elaeocarpus eumundi	Elaeocarpaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest	"The Eumundi quandong, Elaeocarpus eumundi is a mid-sized rainforest tree native to eastern Australia growing up to 30 metres tall.  It is a popular ornamental tree with its dense evergreen foliage. Stunning bronze foliage forms on young leaves making it a popular edition to gardens, Cream coloured scented flowers form between November and December followed by blue drupe egg shaped fruit. "							
Elaeocarpus obovatus	Elaeocarpaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.35	Rainforest	"The Hard quandong, Elaeocarpus obovatus is a large rainforest tree of eastern Australia. Growing to 45 metres tall It grows in tropical and sub-tropical rainforests, less commonly in drier rainforests.  The outer bark of the tree is smooth, grey and thin with corky irregularities. White flowers appear form September to November followed by blue fruit drupe in shape.  Aborigines made necklaces out of the seed after eaten the flesh. "							
Elaeocarpus reticulatus	Elaeocarpaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Open forest	"Elaeocarpus reticulatus, the blue berry ash occurs naturally along the east coast of Australia from Frasers Island to Flinders Island Tasmania.  A popular ornamental tree it has deep green foliage which has reddish-pink flushes when young and produces pink feathery flowers with fringed edges.  Dark blue berries from which it gets it name from form after flowering.  The fruits have an edible outer skin which are popular for jam making. "							
Elaeodendron australe	Celastraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Littoral rainforest or dry rainforests	"The Chinchilla white gum, Eucalyptus argophloia has a limited range and is known only from a small area north east of Chinchilla where it grows in brown to black clay or clay-loam soils."							
Eucalyptus argophloia	Myrtaceae	Vulnerable	Vulnerable	Yes	1.05	Dry Sclerophyll Forest	"The Chinchilla white gum, Eucalyptus argophloia has a limited range and is known only from a small area north east of Chinchilla where it grows in brown to black clay or clay-loam soils."							
Eucalyptus bancroftii	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Dry sclerophyll woodland on sandy soils in low, swampy sites"	"Bancroft's red gum, Eucalyptus bancroftii is small eucalypts growing to 10 metres in height endemic to eastern Australia. It is mainly found in coastal areas but extends to the adjacent tablelands and grows in open forest and woodland, sometimes in low swampy sites but also on rock outcrops on the tablelands. It has smooth bark, lance-shaped or curved adult leaves, flower buds usually arranged in groups of seven, white flowers and cup-shaped, conical or hemispherical fruit."							
Eucalyptus camaldulensis	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Open forest	"River red gum, Eucalyptus camaldulensis is a tall tree typically growing to a height of 20 metres. The bark is smooth white or cream-coloured with patches of yellow, pink or brown. There is often loose, rough slabs of rough bark near the base. E. camaldulensis has the widest natural distribution of any eucalyptus species. It is commonly found along waterways and there are only a few locations where the species is found away from a watercourse. Seven subspecies of E. camaldulensis have been described and accepted. "							
Eucalyptus carnea	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Wet sclerophyll or grassy coastal forests	"White mahogany, Eucalyptus carnea economically, it is one of Australia's most important hardwoods."							
Eucalyptus cloeziana	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Open forest	"A medium to tall tree, the Gympie Messmate, Eucalyptus cloeziana has a wide-ranging yet scattered distribution throughout Queensland.  Commonly 10 to 15 meters tall, the Gympie Messmate can reach up to 60 metres if grown in suitable conditions.  The hard timber is very durable and used in heavy engineering projects.  The species name is in honour of the French chemist Stanislas Cloez.  Cloez was the first to isolate eucalyptol from the leave of the eucalyptus for the treatment of respiratory illness.   "							
Eucalyptus crebra	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.35	Open forest and woodland	"The Narrow-leaved ironbark, Eucalyptus crebra is a large spreading tree up to 35 metres tall. The ironbark group get their name from the generally hard, rough furrowed bark on their trunks and large branches.  This bark is embedded with a substance called kino, a red gum.  Kino has been used in many countries as a traditional medicine due to its antibacterial and astringent properties.   "							
Eucalyptus curtisii	Myrtaceae	Near threatened	Not listed	Yes	0.53	Open forest	"Plunkett mallee, Eucalyptus curtisii is a threatened species found growing naturally in a restricted area about 60 km south of Brisbane near Plunkett. In its natural habitat it forms a mallee-like shrub or small tree 2 - 7 m high. "							
Eucalyptus deanei	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Tall forests in sheltered valleys	"In the 1930s a large area containing a closed forest of Mountain blue gums, Eucalyptus deanei was saved from logging by a group of bushwalkers.  The naturalists pooled their finances together in order to purchase the land and protect it for future generations.  This area now makes up part of the World Heritage-listed Blue Mountains National Park.  "							
Eucalyptus longirostrata	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Wet Sclerophyll Forest	"The Grey gum, Eucalyptus longirostrata is Endemic to South-East Queensland.  This smooth barked gum can reach 30 metres.  Mottled orange, cream and copper colours of new bark becomes a dull grey with age and take on a granular texture before shedding to expose stripes of colour again. "							
Eucalyptus major	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Open forest	"The Small-fruited grey gum, Eucalyptus major is a medium size tree endemic to south-east Queensland. It is a smooth barked eucalypt, which sheds its granular grey bark in strips to reveal mottled cream, pink, orange and grey tones.  It can be identified by its highly discolorous (paler on the underside of the leaf) adult leaves which are a koala food source. white bird attracting flowers appear from mid-summer to autumn.  "							
Eucalyptus melanophloia	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Grassy or sclerophyll woodland	"The Silver leaf iron bark, Eucalyptus melanophloia can be easily identified by its unusual branching pattern and striking silver foliage.  This medium size tree is dominant species in many of the inland grassy woodland and sclerophyll forests it inhabits.  Generally, a medium upright tree, those found in the Mareeba and Mt Isa region differ by forming mallees.  The Silver leaf iron bark ranges widely from far North Queensland to Northern New South Wales and into the Northern Territory.       "							
Eucalyptus melliodora	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Grassy woodlands	"The Yellow box Eucalyptus melliodora is one of the most utilized native trees for honey production due to the abundance of fragrant nectar filled flowers in the warmer months.   A medium to tall growing tree, it is easily identified by its unusual yellowish-brown bark which can vary from smooth to rough partly or all the way down the trunk.   The Yellow box is an excellent food source for many creatures including caterpillars, butterflies, koalas, gliders and birds."							
Eucalyptus microcorys	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.93	Open forest and woodland	"Tallowwood, Eucalyptus microcorys is endemic to eastern Australia. This medium to tall tree has red-brown rough, fibrous or stringy bark on the trunk and branches.  The timber is naturally oily with a high tannin content making is highly used for decking and furniture. The Tallowwood name is believed to refer to the greasy (tallow) feel of the wood when cut. White to lemon coloured flowers form on the tree from July to November.  This tree is a food source for koalas, birds, insects and mammals.  "							
Eucalyptus moluccana	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.44	Open forest	"The Gum-topped box, Eucalyptus moluccana is widespread throughout coastal areas of New South Wales to North Queensland.  Eucalyptus moluccana is characterised by the rough bark stocking that covers the bottom half of the tree.  Above the stocking is a grey smooth bark which sheds to reveal white sometimes silky bark underneath. The tree is an important koala food source.  "							
Eucalyptus pellita	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Open forest	"The Large-fruited red mahogany, Eucalyptus pellita is a medium to large tree endemic to the east coast of North Queensland and parts of Papua New Guinea.  Preferring wetter soils, it can be found forming wet sclerophyll forest adjacent to rainforest areas and occasionally as a smaller tree growing in littoral sands with other heath-like plants.  Has been known to naturally hybridise with other Eucalypt species.  "							
Eucalyptus propinqua	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.40	Open forest	"The Small-fruited grey gum, Eucalyptus propinqua is a medium to large tree growing to a height of 40 meters tall.  The bark is smooth, becoming granular with age. Colouration can vary from mottled grey, cream, pink, orange, coppery or yellow, the bark sheds in strips.  This species is closely related to the Grey gum, Eucalyptus major.  It is distinguished from E. major by having smaller buds.  The Small-fruited grey gum is a timber tree it has been used in heavy engineering for poles and railway sleepers.  Nectar produced by the flowers is also used to produce honey. "							
Eucalyptus raveretiana	Myrtaceae	Vulnerable	Vulnerable	Yes	0.53	"Open forest, woodlands and along creeks and rivers"	"Populations of the Black ironbox, Eucalyptus raveretiana can be found growing in open forest from Rockhampton to Townsville along fertile sedimentary rivers and creeks.  A medium-sized tree, the Black ironbox can regenerate from lignotubers; a swollen food store with dormant buds at the base of many eucalypts that allow them to reshoot if damaged.  "							
Eucalyptus resinifera	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Open forest	"The Red stringybark, Eucalyptus resinifera gets its name from the Latin meaning “to carry or to bear resin”.  This is in reference to the red gum like substance called kino the bark contains.  It is found along the eastern coast of Australia in both dry and wet sclerophyll forest where it prefers fertile soil.  A medium to large tree, it is well utilized for its robust dark red timber in flooring and general construction.  The Red stringybark is also a valuable koala food tree.   "							
Eucalyptus robusta	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.53	Swampy coastal open forest	"Living up to 200 years, the Swamp mahogany, Eucalyptus robusta is native to eastern Australia. It is found in both fresh or brackish swamp areas or where the water table it high.  This adaptable species can grow in a variety of soils from heavy clay to sand and will withstand acidic soils as low as 2.5 on the pH scale.  It is a vital winter-flowering tree for nectivorous species and leaves provide nourishment for hungry koalas.  "							
Eucalyptus robusta x tereticornis	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Open forest	"The Forest red gum Eucalyptus robusta x tereticornis is a naturally occurring hybrid between these two species.  Hybrids with Eucalyptus robusta are not uncommon where they occur closely to other species of the same subgenus, a taxonomic subdivision category of plants ranking below genus and above species.  "							
Eucalyptus saligna subsp. saligna	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Open forest	"The Sydney blue gum Eucalyptus saligna subsp. Saligna can live up to 200 years, likely due to its ability to regenerate successfully from epicormic buds below the bark of the trunk after bushfire or damage has occurred.  The quick growing forestry tree is valued for its hard, dark honey coloured timber, used in boatbuilding, furniture making and flooring.  Flowers of the Sydney blue gum are a food source for the vulnerable grey-headed flying fox and the seed is popular addition to the diets of the iconic crimson rosella. "							
Eucalyptus seeana	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.44	Open forest	"The Narrow-leaved red gum, Eucalyptus seeana is a small to medium-sized woodland red gum tree of coastal and subcoastal New South Wales northwards into Queensland. It typically grows in woodlands and open forests on low, often swampy, sandy soils. The bark is smooth, sometimes becoming granular with age and a mottle grey, white, pink or orange. "							
Eucalyptus siderophloia	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.61	Open forest and woodland	"Northern grey ironbark, Eucalyptus siderophloia is a eucalypt of South Eastern Australia, occurring from New South Wales and Queensland.  A medium to large tree reaching 45 metres high, it is found fertile soils of coastal rainforest and areas with wet soils.  "							
Eucalyptus sp.	Myrtaceae			Yes	0.53	Unknown	"The term “Eucalypt” refers to 3 genera of the Myrtaceae family, Eucalyptus, Corymbia and Angophora.  These three groups make up just under 900 species of flowering plants we refer to as gum trees. Eucalypt trees make up to 75% of Australia’s native flora and are distinguished by their wood fruit known as a gumnut.  "							
Eucalyptus tereticornis subsp. tereticornis	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	3.25	Open forest	"Forest red gum, Eucalyptus tereticornis has one of the widest ranges of latitudes of any Eucalyptus occurring along eastern Australia from Queensland to Victoria and occurring in Southern Papua New Guinea. The scientific name tereticornis is derived from the latin words ‘terete’ and cornus meaning ‘horn’ in reference to the horn-shaped cap-like structure (operculum) covering the flower bud.  Forest red gum can reach a height of up to 50 meters and a trunk width of up to 2 meters.  The timber of this tree has a strong, hard and durable heartwood making it suitable for construction in heavy engineering for infrastructure such as railway sleepers.  The leaves of this tree are used in the production of eucalyptus oil. "							
Eucalyptus thozetiana	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Woodland and open forest	"Eucalyptus thozetiana is a medium smooth barked gum with a creamy white to pink colour.   This species was named after the French-Australian botanist Anthelme Thozet.  Thozet brought numerous economic plants into uses in Queensland after trialling many species in his home garden.  An avid plant collector, he was appointed the first Director of the Rockhampton Botanic Gardens.  "							
Euroschinus falcatus var. falcatus	Ancardiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.79	Rainforest and open forest	"Ribbonwood, Euroschinus falcatus var. falcatus is a medium sized tree which grows in a variety of rain forest types however more commonly encountered in drier rainforest.  This species is a timber tree producing wood useful for general purposes.  Ribbonwood flowers from October to December producing small creamy pink to white flowers.  The fruit ripen from December to January they are black, scented and egg shaped each containing one seed.  "							
Excoecaria agallocha	Euphorbiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Tidal forests, brackish areas"	"The Milky mangrove, Excoecaria agallocha is a common mangrove on tidal riverbanks.  It adapts to its environment with the help of surface roots that can absorb oxygen when exposed to air on low tides. The leaves take up excess salt from the plant and expelling it when they fall from the tree.  The common name is in reference to the milky sap that members of the Euphorbiaceae family contain.  The sap is highly irritating to the skin, poisonous and can result in blindness if contact with the eyes is made.   "							
Falcataria toona	Fabaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Monsoon Forest	"Mackay cedar, Falcataria toona produces a decorative general purpose timber."							
Ficus benjamina var. benjamina	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Tropical rainforests, monsoonal forests or mixed wet forests"	"The Weeping fig Ficus benjamina var. benjamina is the official tree of Bangkok, native to tropical areas in Australia and Asia.  It is commonly sold by nurseries as an indoor plant due to the glossy leaves, graceful arching habit and hardiness, however the Ficus benjamina can reach 30 metres in its natural environment.  It is not recommended for small yards due to the well-earned reputation for lifting walkways and damaging structures with its adventitious root system.  It is a food source for many native rainforest pigeons. "							
Ficus congesta	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Red-leaf Fig, Ficus congesta is small rainforest fig to 6 metres in height.  As the name suggests new growth is a reddish copper colour. Often found inhabiting edges of creekbanks, the Red leafed fig is a food source for the cassowary and endangered spectacle flying fox.   "							
Ficus coronata	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.44	"Watercourses and gullies in rainforest, and less commonly in open forest"	"The Sandpaper fig, Ficus coronata is a small tree which can reach 6- 12m in height, although generally smaller.  The sandpaper fid is found along watercourses and gullies in rainforests, less commonly found in open forests. It is best known for its rough sandpaper like leaves.  The fruit is edible and was consumed by local Aboriginal people."							
Ficus macrophylla	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	"Subtropical, warm temperate and dry rainforest"	"The Moreton Bay fig, Ficus macrophylla is a native of Eastern Australia rainforest.  This massive spreading tree usually starts life as an epiphyte or a plant that grows on another plant.  Seeds that are dispersed by birds land in the canopies of host trees where they germinate and send down roots to make contact with the ground.  Once these roots have access to nutrients they enlarge and grow around the host, this process stops the host tree from growing larger while competing for valuable nutrients and sunlight.  In most cases the host tree dies.  Over time the original tree rots away and the strangler fig becoming a hollow free-standing tree up to 60 metres in height.  It is an impressive feature tree in large gardens.    "							
Ficus macrophylla forma macrophylla	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest	"The Moreton Bay fig, Ficus macrophylla forma macrophylla is found in rainforests from Southern Queensland to North Eastern NSW."							
Ficus microcarpa	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.61	Rainforest	"The Small-fruited fig, Ficus microcarpa can be found in rainforest and littoral forest throughout North Queensland, it is also native to New Guinea, India, South East Asia and the Pacific Islands.  Reaching up to 20 metres high, the small leaf fig can spread to around 15 metres wide by producing large numbers of prop roots.  These are adventitious aerial roots develop on the branches that make there way down to the ground.  Over time these prop roots thicken become a trunk like support for the spreading canopy.  "							
Ficus microcarpa var. hilli	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.44	Rainforest	"Ficus microcarpa var. hillii is a large broad fig from the coastal rainforests of Queensland.  This dense evergreen tree can reach a height of 20 meters grow up to 15 metres wide with prop roots helping to support the crown.  The figs of this species, which are not actually fruit but a type of modified flower, is variable in colour and can be pink, purple, black, orange red or cream. Roots of this species are tree are invasive.  "							
Ficus microcarpa var. microcarpa	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Small-fruited fig, Ficus microcarpa can be found in rainforest and littoral forest throughout North Queensland, it is also native to New Guinea, India, South East Asia and the Pacific Islands.  Reaching up to 20 metres high, the small leaf fig can spread to around 15 metres wide by producing large numbers of prop roots.  These are adventitious aerial roots develop on the branches that make there way down to the ground.  Over time these prop roots thicken become a trunk like support for the spreading canopy.  "							
Ficus nodosa	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Gallery forest along creeks and rivers	"The fruits of the Rocky River Fig, Ficus nodosa are eaten by Bare-backed Fruit bats as well as many varieties of rainforest bird.  It is native to parts of northern Australia and Papua New Guinea, Malesia and the Pacific Islands.  The tree is deciduous between July and September. The Rocky river fig can reach 30 metres in height and is supported by buttress roots that grow up to 4 metres tall."							
Ficus obliqua	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Moist subtropical rainforest	"The small-leaved fig, Ficus obliqua can be found in rainforest and vine thickets along the eastern coast of Australia, The Pacific Islands and Malesia.  It is a popular shade tree for public spaces and is also used for bonsai.  This evergreen tree can reach up to 60 metres in height supported by a buttressed trunk.  Small fruit turn from yellow to red when ripe as a food source for many species of bird.      "							
Ficus platypoda	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	"Sandstone outcrops, but has occasionally been found on limestone outcrops"	"The Desert Fig, Ficus platypoda is an attractive small tree to 8 metres.  Native to central and northern Australia where it is found growing on rocky outcrops and sandstone soils.  It is sometimes epiphytic (a plant growing on another plant) or lithophytic (growing on rocks) and may have aerial roots.  Fruit is popular with birds and is a bush tucker food.  A good bonsai specimen due to hardiness and positive response to pruning.  "							
Ficus racemosa	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest	"The Cluster fig, Ficus racemosa gets its name from the Latin word racemose in reference to the clustering structure of the fruit which makes this species easily recognisable.  Native to Australia, Malesia and South East Asia, they are a utilized in Indian medicine for a variety of ailments and disease and are a staple food of the Indian macaque monkey.   "							
Ficus racemosa var. racemosa	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Cluster fig, Ficus racemosa gets its name from the Latin word racemose in reference to the clustering structure of the fruit which makes this species easily recognisable.  Native to Australia, Malesia and South East Asia, they are a utilized in Indian medicine for a variety of ailments and disease and are a staple food of the Indian macaque monkey.   "							
Ficus rubiginosa	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest and fringing forest	"The rusty fig, Ficus rubiginosa, is wide spreading tree to 30 metres.  It is usually an epiphyte, growing in the canopy of other trees until it develops enough of a root system to support itself.  The name is derived from the word rubiginosus meaning rusty red and refers to the rust colour leaf hairs that may be present.  The rusty fig is a popular shade tree and indoor plant.  "							
Ficus rubiginosa forma glabrescens	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.35	Rainforest and fringing forest	"The rusty fig, Ficus rubiginosa, is wide spreading tree to 30 metres.  It is usually an epiphyte, growing in the canopy of other trees until it develops enough of a root system to support itself.  The name is derived from the word rubiginosus meaning rusty red and refers to the rust colour leaf hairs that may be present.  The rusty fig is a popular shade tree and indoor plant.  "							
Ficus septica	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Montane forests or secondary growth environments	"The Septic fig, Ficus septica is a large shrub or tree growing to 15 metres.  The figs have a green flesh that develops white raised dots when ripe.  These form on the main stem or old often leafless branches and are a popular food with native rats, parrots and the vulnerable Spectacle Flying fox.  "							
Ficus superba var. henneana	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Riverine, littoral or the drier forms of rainforest"	The Ficus superba var. henneana is a deciduous tree growing to 35 metres high with buttressed roots endemic to Australia.   Seeds of this “strangler fig” often germinate in the canopy of other trees where there is access to water and light.  It is a food source for the many mammals and birds including the rare and endangered Coxen's Fig-parrot. 							
Ficus virens	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.44	Rainforest	"The White fig, Ficus virens is a strangler fig found in rainforest throughout Northern Australia, India, southeast Asia and Malaysia.  The fruit, like many figs are eatable as are the leaves which some cultures cook and used as a vegetable."							
Ficus virens var. sublanceolata	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Ficus virens var. sublanceolata is a rainforest tree native to the east coast of Australia from New South Wales through to North Queensland.  Often starting out life in the rainforest canopy as an epiphyte, a plant growing on another plant, it can reach a height of 30 metres when mature.  Branches develop thick prop roots help to support the wide canopy that can be wider than the tree is tall.  "							
Ficus virens var. virens	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Ficus virens var. virens like other Ficus species have a symbiotic relationship with their only pollinator, the fig wasp.  It is a unique relationship of coevolution where one cannot survive without the other.  The Ficus relies on the wasp to pollinate their flowers and the fig wasps are born, mate and die inside the fig.  The plant detects the presence of egg once laid and surrounds it with enough food to grow and continue the life cycle.    "							
Ficus watkinsiana	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest	"Strangler fig, Ficus watkinsiana produces fruit which is a food source for Cassowaries."							
Flindersia australis	"Rutaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.88	Rainforest	"Crow's ash, Flindersia australis is a large (40 metre) rainforest tree which is found naturally in Queensland and New South Wales.  Once mature this tree forms a buttressed trunk which is used for timber production for flooding, decking, boat building and furniture production. The timber which is creamy yellow in colour is renowned for is great strength, durability and close grain.   During spring cream to white flowers are formed followed by woody capsules which are 7-10 cm long. The capsules split open to reveal winged seeds.  "							
Flindersia bennettii	"Rutaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest	"Bennett's ash, Flindersia bennettii is an Australian rainforest that ranges from New south Wales to South East Queensland.  It is one of the many plants named after the British naturalist, Dr. George Bennett.  Bennett’s strong interest in Australia’s native flora and fauna including its extinct species resulted in the discoveries of many new species of plants, a greater detailed understanding of the animal inhabitants and many fossilized archaeological finds.  "							
Flindersia brayleyana	"Rutaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Queensland maple, Flindersia brayleyana is a large, fast growing native rainforest tree.  Despite the name, it is not a true maple but in fact a member of the citrus family Rutaceae. An attractive tree due to its glossy green foliage and clusters of large white flowers in summer, the Flindersia genus is named after the explorer Mathew Flinders.  "							
Flindersia collina	"Rutaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Dry vine forest	"The Leopard ash, Flindersia collina is an attractive rainforest tree growing to 40 metres.  A member of the citrus family, this Australian native ranges from New South Wales to tropical Queensland.  The Leopard ash gets its name from its spotted green, brown and grey bark which sheds in roundish patches over the cylindrical trunk.  White flowers are borne in spring followed by winged seeds that assist the seed disperse by wind.   "							
Flindersia schottiana	"Rutaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.70	Rainforest	"The Bumpy ash, Flindersia schottiana is a common sight around Brisbane due to its popularity as a street tree.  A member of the Rutaceae or citrus family, it is found from New South Wales to Cape York.  The Bumpy ash also occurs in areas of Papua New Guinea where it is in decline due to habitat clearing.  Sprays of honey scented, white flowers appear in early summer followed by winged seeds designed for wind dispersal.  The timber is used in numerous applications including cabinet making, turning, sports equipment such as bats, tool handles, boats and musical instruments.  "							
Flindersia xanthoxyla	"Rutaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest and dry vine forest	"The Yellowwood, Flindersia xanthoxyla is a species of rainforest tree found growing in dry and coastal rainforest to subtropical rainforest areas from New South Wales into South East Queensland.  A tall cylindrical tree to 45 metres, this species gets its name from the Greek meaning for xanthos yellow"""							
Fraxinus angustifolia subsp. syriaca	"Oleaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Mediterranean, woodlands and shrublands"	"The Syrian ash-tree, is a medium slow tree to 20 metres, although generally smaller in cultivation.   Native of south-west and central Asia, this deciduous tree will lose its foliage in autumn leaving the specially formed samara, a papery dry fruit designed to travel on the wind.  These samara remain on the tree until stronger winter gusts arrive. This tree is easily grown and tolerant of hash conditions. "							
Geijera parviflora	"Rutaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	"Open forest, dry vine forest and woodland"	"The Wilga, Geijera parviflora, is a member of the citrus family, Rutaceae, found throughout dry areas of inland NSW, Qld, Vic, SA and WA.  This hardy and adaptable tree is found is woodland areas where it can reach highs of 9 metres.  The rough grey fissured bark is pleasant smelling as are the leaves when crushed.  Unlike the rest of the tree, the small creamy flowers have an unpleasant odour in order to attract pollinating flies.  A highly ornamental tree with graceful branches and foliage resembling a weeping willow.  It is well utilized by many native insects and birds.  "							
Glochidion ferdinandi	Phyllanthaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.44	Rainforest and humid eucalypt forest	"The Cheese tree, Glochidion ferdinandi is a shrub or small tree growing up to 15 m high.  It can be found in dry, coastal and subtropical rainforest ranging from North East Queensland to lower New South Wales.  Buttressed roots provide stability for the tree, particularly in areas with poor soil where deep roots are difficult to develop.   The pumpkin shaped fruit enjoyed by many bird species is green or pinkish red when ripe.  Emerging new growth is red in colour with old leaves turning orange before falling. "							
Glochidion sp.	Phyllanthaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest and humid eucalypt forest	"Glochidion sp. Glochidion is a genus of flowering plants, contains about 300 species. It is distributed from Madagascar to the Pacific Islands with 15 species native to Australia where they are often known as cheese trees.  Glochidion species are an important food plant for many moths and butterflies.  Some species have coevolved with leafflower moths who act as the sole pollinators and lay their eggs in the flower ovaries.    "							
Glochidion sumatranum	Phyllanthaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Rainforest, or rainforest margins in swampy areas"	"The Cheese tree, Glochidion sumatranum is an attractive tree with a graceful rounded habit up to 25 metres.  This fast growing, pioneer tree displays ornamental pink new growth on both the stems and leaves.  Dull pinkish hairy fruit that appear in spring to summer are a popular food source for parrots, riflebirds, honeyeaters, doves and lorikeets.  "							
Gmelina fasciculiflora	Lamiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest	"The Northern white beech, Gmelina fasciculiflora is a dense, spreading native tree to 30 metres.  Often deciduous in winter, it can be found in rainforest from Cape Tribulation to Cardwell, North Queensland where its fruit is part of the Cassowaries diet.  The upperside of the leaf is a smooth green while the underside is whitish with rusty hairs.  Large bluish-purple flowers develop from September followed by an attractive purple fruit.  The timber is highly prized for its durability and ease to work with, particularly for carving.  "							
Gmelina leichhardtii	Lamiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"White beech, Gmelina leichhardtii is a tropical forest tree of eastern Australia which reaches up to 40 m tall.  This semi-deciduous tree forms a large buttressed trunk, the base of the largest trees exceeds two and a half metres in diameter.  This tree is uncommon in the wild with populations decimated from logging activities in the 19th and 20th centuries. The timber is durable and greyish without significant markings. However, it splits when nailed. It is prized for templates, pattern making, house construction, planking for boat hulls, flooring, carriage work, wood carving and cabinet work. "							
Gossia myrsinocarpa/Gossia acminoides	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09		"The Scrub ironwood, Gossia acmenoides is a native shrub or tree belonging to the Myrtaceae family.  Found in drier rainforest areas along the east coast, it is considered endangered in New South Wales.  Often multi stemmed with unusual crooked trunks the Scrub ironwood can grow to 18 metres.  White flowers appear from November followed by small black fruit.  "							
Grevillea baileyana	Proteaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	"Lowland rain forest, gallery forest and drier, more seasonal rain forest"	"The White oak, Grevillea baileyana is a medium to large tree native to north-eastern Queensland and Papua New Guinea. Although native to tropical Queensland, this large tree has started showing signs of invasive growth around the Brisbane area and is not recommended for planting.  Green leaves with bronze hairy underside distinguish this species from the very similar but non-invasive substitutes, White Oak, Grevillea hilliana and Ivory Curl, Buckinghamia celsissima. "							
Grevillea hilliana	Proteaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Subtropical rainforest	"The White yiel yiel, Grevillea hilliana is an attractive tree, endemic to subtropical and seasonal rainforest of Queensland and New South Wales.  Named after the Australian botanist Walter Hill, the White yiel yiel can grow to a large tree of 30 metres in its natural environment.  The underside of the leaves is silver white colour with juvenile leaves lobed; projections of the leaf blade with gaps between them such as a maple leaf. The white to pale green fragrant flowers the tree produces from May to October and are an excellent source of nectar. "							
Grevillea robusta	Proteaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.67	Rainforest	"Silky oak, Grevillea robusta is the largest species of grevillea reaching up to 40 metres tall. Its bark is dark grey and furrowed, the leaves are fern-like. Flowering occurs between September and November forming stunning golden-orange flowers.  This tree is widely used in gardens but it is  regarded as an environmental weed in New South Wales and as a minor environmental weed or potential environmental weed in Victoria. Before the advent of aluminium, Silky oak timber was widely used for external window joinery, as it is resistant to wood rot. It has been used in the manufacture of furniture, cabinetry, and fences."							
Guioa semiglauca	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest and fringing forest	"The Guioa or wild quince, Guioa semiglauca is a medium rainforest tree growing to 25 metres.  It is found in warmer rainforest ranging from North Queensland into Northern New South Wales as well as warmer parts of Central Queensland where it is an important food tree for many bird species.  Leaves are discolorous, lighter on the underside of the leaf.  New growth is red maturing to a dull green with a whitish-grey underside.  Small, greenish white flowers develop from September followed by bright orange to red capsules containing the seed.   "							
Gyrocarpus americanus	Sterculiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Coolamon tree, Gyrocarpus americanus is a slender, deciduous tree with smooth, grey bark growing to 12 m in height.  Native to Australia, Africa, Asia, the Pacific and Central America. The tree is also commonly known as the Helicopter tree as the fruit"							
Harpullia hillii	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Dry Rainforest	"The Blunt-leaved tulip or oblong-leaved tulip, Harpullia hillii was first described in 1859 by Victorian government botanist Ferdinand von Mueller based on plant material collected by Walter Hill, first superintendent of the Brisbane Botanic Gardens."							
Harpullia pendula	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	4.30	Rainforest	"Tulipwood, Harpullia pendula is a small to medium sized rainforest tree which is popular for its use as an ornamental tree commonly used in parks, gardens and as a street tree.  This species occurs from tropical Queensland to Northern New South Wales. It is a rainforest species which naturally grows in wet and dry rainforests, by streams and on basaltic or alluvial soils.  It has attractive foliage and large pendulous sprays of greenish-yellow, slightly fragrant flowers during the summer, followed by showy orange seed cases.  Tulipwood is used as a timber tree for its tough light wood which is attractively patterned and easily worked. Logging for its timber has made it scarce in the wild."							
Hibiscus heterophyllus	Malvaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.35	Open forest	"The Native rosella, Hibiscus heterophyllus is a tall, fast growing shrub reaching up to 6 metres.  Growing in moist situations from central New South Wales to the top of Queensland, the Native rosella produces a copiousness amounts of flowers followed by edible fruits. The species is quite variable depending on the environment it is grown.  Flowers can range from white to yellow with flowering times differ from June to December.   The flowers and fruit attract many native birds and butterflies, it is particularly favoured by honeyeaters. "							
Hymenosporum flavum	Pittosporaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest	"The Native frangipani, Hymenosporum flavum is an attractive rainforest tree to 25 metres. Masses of fragrant cream white flowers that age to yellow appear in spring.   The flowers are followed by brown capsules containing numerous papery winged seeds designed for wind dispersal.  Although native to tropical and sub-tropical rainforests it is adaptable to many soils and climates.   It is often used in landscaping and as a street tree due to the pleasant pyramid shape and glossy green leaves.  Despite the common name it is not related to the tropical Frangipani.  "							
Jacaranda mimosifolia	"Bignoniaceae	"	Not listed	Not listed	No	0.26	Rainforest	"The first Jacaranda, Jacaranda mimosifolia planted in Brisbane was in the City Botanical Gardens in 1864, since then it has become an iconic tree in the Brisbane landscape.  This ornamental tree is best known its magnificent violet-blue clusters of long-lasting bell-shaped flowers in spring.  Over time however the Jacaranda has started to naturalize in both New South Wales and Brisbane and is now considered to be an invasive species.   "							
Jagera pseudorhus var. pseudorhus	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.53	Rainforest and open forest	"Foambark, Jagera pseudorhus is renowned as its bark was used by Aborigines as a fish poison. It contains saponins, which break the bonds of water molecules, causing them to lose oxygen. The fish suffocate and float to the surface."							
Lagunaria patersonii	Malvaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Norfolk Island hibiscus, Lagunaria patersonii naturally occurs from on Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands.  It is a medium to large tree which can reach 12-20 metres in height. It has dense, greyish-green leaves which are oval in shaped and covered in soft hairs when young. The pink flowers are typical hibiscus shaped. Flowers are followed by brown capsules containing several black seeds. The capsules contain white fibres which can be very irritating if they get on the skin. It is widely grown in tropical, subtropical and temperate areas both coastal and inland. "							
Lepiderema sp. (Impulse Creek)	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Complex notophyll vine forest								
Leptospermum sp.	Myrtaceae				0.09		"Commonly referred to as Teatree, the genus Leptospermum is native to Australia, South East Asia and New Zealand where it inhabits a variety of habitats.  The common name tea-tree originates from the use of the leaves as a tea substitute during early settlement.  "							
Libidibia ferrea	Fabaceae	Not listed	Not listed	No	0.09		"The Leopard tree, Libidibia ferrea is a large, semi-deciduous tree reaching 20 metres.  Originating in Brazil, it is a prized ornamental tree due to its decorative mottled grey, brown and white shedding bark and fern like leaflets.   Showy yellow flower spikes form at ends of the stems attracting nectar loving birds and insects.  Timber is very hard and can cause allergic reactions for those who work with it.  Despite the problematic nature of the timber, it is a desired tree for instrument making."							
Livistona australis	Arecaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	"Swamp-forest, rainforest margins, or gallery-rainforest"	"The Cabbage-tree palm, Livistona australis is a native palm ranging from north Queensland to Eastern Victoria.  This tall palm is the second most southerly distributed palm species in the world and can be found growing in thick stands in swampy areas and on rainforest outskirts. Greyish green fan shaped leaves are held on spiked petioles or leaf stalks.  The common name is in reference to the palm heart or central bud that can be eaten.  Sometimes referred to as millionaire’s salad as removing this bud will destroy the palm.   "							
Lophostemon confertus	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.23	Rainforest and open forest	"Queensland brush box, Lophostemon confertus is a fast-growing rainforest tree which reaches 25 metres tall. It is a popular street tree, due to its disease and pest resilience, its high tolerance for smog, drought and poor drainage, and attractive foliage and rounded shape.   Endemic to Australia is naturally occurs in North Eastern Queensland and southwards to New South Wales on wet sclerophyll forest, rain forest margins and in rain forest. "							
Lophostemon suaveolens	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Open forest and fringing forest	"The Swamp box, Lophostemon suaveolens is a medium native tree occurring from the north of New South Wales to Cape York and New Guinea.  A member of the Eucalypt family, Myrtaceae, it is found in open forest, swampy areas, river flats and rainforest.   The name suaveolens comes from the Latin meaning fragrant or sweet smelling and is in reference to the flower.  Older leaves turn a reddish orange before to falling. "							
Lysiphyllum carronii	Caesalpiniaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Sandy or rocky soil in cypress-ironbark woodland, on sandy river banks, flood plains, in grey silty soil, in clay in Brigalow scrub, Gidgee scrub, on red clay-loam flats, and on steep slopes in vine thickets"								
Lysiphyllum hookeri	Caesalpiniaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	"Monsoon forest, littoral rainforest"	"The White bauhinia, Lysiphyllum hookeri is a semi deciduous small tree native to the Dry Sclerophyll Forests of Queensland.  The compound leaves grow in paired leaflets and resemble a butterfly shape.   Attractive white flowers with red stamens can be seen in spring, sometimes more often throughout the year depending on rainfall.  "							
Macadamia integrifolia	Proteaceae	Vulnerable	Vulnerable	Yes	0.53	Rainforest	"The Macadamia, Macadamia integrifolia is endemic to rainforests of Queensland however this tree is now grown in many different countries for the nutritious eatable nut.  Fragrant flowers are produced in spring and on racemes up to 300mm long, containing up to 300 cream flowers followed by woody fruits.   "							
Macadamia ternifolia	Proteaceae	Vulnerable	Vulnerable	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Gympie nut, Macadamia ternifolia is a small evergreen tree growing to 8 metres.  The leaf margins of this species are coarsely and unevenly serrated, the new growth is an attractive pinkish red colour.  Pink flowers develop from June to October before eatable seed is produced.  Land clearing has impacted this species to the point of vulnerable under the conservation act with only 1000-2000 of the Macadamia ternifolia left in the wild.  "							
Macaranga tanarius	Euphorbiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.58	Rainforest	"Macaranga tanarius is a pioneer species, fast growing in disturbed rainforest. It has a wide distribution occurring in South East Asia, Thailand, Papua New Guinea, Taiwan, and eastern Australia.  This shrub can reach 12 meters tall and is easily recognised by its round veiny leaves.  Yellow-green flowers form over Spring and Summer. Female and make flowers grow on different trees.  It is used as an ornamental tree and in bush regeneration as it rapidly establishes forming shade for juvenile trees. "							
Mallotus claoxyloides	Euphorbiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest	"The Green kamala, Mallotus claoxyloides is a small tree or shrub to 8m with a tendency to sucker.  It is a common understory species growing in dry rainforest and vine thickets from New South Wales to North Queensland.  Other common names include Odour bush and Smell of the bush, due to the aromatic scent all parts of the plant emit, particularly the leaves when crushed.  Whether or not the smell is a pleasant seems to be based on personal preference.  "							
Mallotus philippensis	Euphorbiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.44	Rainforest and dry vine forest	"The Red kamala, Mallotus philippensis is a tree to 20 m high found in rainforest, vine thickets and monsoonal forest.  It has a wide distribution growing in Australia, New Guinea, South East Asia, India and Malesia.  The red fruit produced at any time of the year is used as a dye.  Seeds are used to produce a fatty oil that can act as a substitute for tung oil.   "							
Mangifera indica	Ancardiaceae	Not listed	Not listed	No	0.09		"The Mango, Mangifera indica is a native of India and Myanmar where it can grow to a height of 30 metres.  Due to the popularity of the fruit the Mango tree has been spread by humans throughout tropical and subtropical parts of the world over the last two centuries.  In many cases it has become naturalized and is considered a weed in these areas due to the spread to rainforest and alluvial habitats.  "							
Maytenus bilocularis	Celastraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest and dry vine forest	"The Orange bark, Maytenus bilocularis is small tree or shrub to 10 metres.  Endemic to Eastern Australia, it can be found in dry rainforest, woodland and monsoonal forest from North Queensland to New South Wales.  Greenish flowers appear in late spring followed by yellow 2 valved fruit with an orange seed coating called an aril."							
Melaleuca bracteata	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.35	Riparian forest	"The Black tea tree, Melaleuca bracteate is a small to medium tree growing to 8 metres.  It is endemic to parts of Western Australia, the Northern Territory, Queensland and New South Wales where it grows on wet sites and riverbeds.   It is a parent plant for many modern garden cultivars.  "							
Melaleuca decora	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Riparian and swamp forest	"The White feather honeymyrtle, Melaleuca decora is a shrub or small tree to 7 metres.  Found naturally in open forest and wet areas from New South Wales to Queensland, it is covered in a paper like bark. Cream flowers appear in Summer followed by woody fruit.  The species name decora comes from the Latin word meaning adorned or beautiful/good looking/handsome.  "							
Melaleuca decora/ melaleuca linariifolia	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Riparian and swamp forest	"The White feather honeymyrtle, Melaleuca decora is a shrub or small tree to 7 metres.  Found naturally in open forest and wet areas from New South Wales to Queensland, it is covered in a paper like bark. Cream flowers appear in Summer followed by woody fruit.  The species name decora comes from the Latin word meaning adorned or beautiful/good looking/handsome.  "							
Melaleuca leucadendra	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.97	Riparian forest and woodland on floodplains	"Weeping paperbark, Melaleuca leucadendra is a medium size tree growing to 20 metres in height.  This widely distributed tree is native to the warmer, northern regions of Australia as well as parts of New Guinea.   Like many species in this genus it is covered with the iconic white papery bark.   The new groth is covered in white hairs and leaves are generally curved.  The creamy white flowers are widely utilized by nectivorous creatures due to an extensive flowering period. "							
Melaleuca linariifolia	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.61	Riparian and swamp forest	"The narrow-leaf paperbark or snow-in-summer, Melaleuca linariifolia is found along the banks of permanent watercourses and swamps which regularly flood. Its distribution is largely confirmed to the north-east corner of NSW, southern Queensland and northern South Australia.  Often a multi-stemmed shrub of small tree (6m high) the bark on the trunk and larger branches is white, papery and usually peeling. The heartwood of this tree is pinkish-brown with a fine and even texture and it gives off a pleasant odour due to terpines when working with the wood."							
Melaleuca quinquenervia	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.88	Swamp forest and shrubland	"The Broad-leaved paperbark, Melaleuca quinquenervia is a native tree to 25 metres.  Found in wet areas and along waterways from the East coast of New South Wales to Queensland, it is also endemic to New Guinea and New Caledonia.  The leathery leaves are used to produce essential oil commonly used in cosmetics and medicines.   "							
Melaleuca salicina	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Fringing forest and woodland	"The Willow bottlebrush, Melaleuca salicina can be found in moist areas and along watercourses from South East Queensland to Southern New South Wales.  A tree or large shrub growing up to 12 metres tall with papery white bark.  The new growth is pink and covered in small hairs before aging to narrow medium green leaves.  "							
Melaleuca saligna	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Woodland, swamps, sand dunes and the edge of riverbanks, waterholes and tidal creeks"	"Melaleuca species are a genus of angiosperms or flowering plants in the Myrtle family.  These species often have a layered papery bark and nectar rich bottlebrush shaped flowers.   Many species of Melaleuca are found growing in wet, swampy areas or along waterways.  They commonly regenerate well after fire.  The genus gets its name from the Latin for black and white, assumed in reference to the burned bases of the white trunks after fire.   "							
Melaleuca styphelioides	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.53	Riverine and impeded drainage	"The Prickly paperbark, Melaleuca styphelioides is a tree growing up to 20 metres high.  It can be found in wet, swampy areas or along waterways from Eastern Queensland to New South Wales.  Dark green foliage has sharp pointed tips which provide habitat and protection for local wildlife. Cream flowers are borne in spring through to summer.  The Prickly paperbark has been utilized as a street tree in some areas of Australia due to its tolerance for pollution and adaptability to varied conditions.  "							
Melaleuca viminalis subsp. viminalis	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	2.63	Riparian forest	"The small tree Weeping bottlebrush, Melaleuca viminalis occurs naturally on the eastern coast of Australia from Cape York to Northern New South Wales. Found commonly along watercourses it is most distinguished by the prominent red flower spikes which typically form from September to December however they can also occur sporadically throughout the year. It is one of the best known and most widely cultivated of all bottlebrushes used commonly as a street tree. "							
Melaleuca viridiflora	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Riparian forest	"The Broad-leaved paperbark, Melaleuca viridiflora is a shrub or small tree endemic to the tropical north regions of Australia through to New Guinea.  It can be found growing in swampy areas, along streams or seasonally inundated open forest where is can reach 10 metres in height.  The bark ranges from cream to grey and is made up of soft papery layers. The leaves are thick and stiff with fine hairs on the new growth.  The species has an unusual green flower as implied by the name, viridiflora translating to viridis - fresh green and flos – flower. "							
Melia azedarach	Meliaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.05	"Fringing forest rainforest margins, vine thicket"	"The White cedar, Melia azedarach is deciduous tree that can reach 35 metres in height.  Native to Australia from coastal far north Queensland through to Southern New South Wales as well as parts of Asia this species has become widely naturalized and invasive in other parts of the world.  Star shaped scented flowers hang in clusters with varying colour petals that can be purple, pink or white.   These flowers are followed by poisonous yellow fruit only eatable by birds.  "							
Melicope elleryana	"Rutaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest and swamp forest	"The Pink Euodia, Melicope elleryana is a native rainforest tree growing up to 25 m high distributed through various parts of Australia as well as New Guinea and Malesia.   The trunk which is sometimes buttressed is covered in pale brown corky bark particularly near the base.   The pink flowers are borne along the trunk and branches are bird attracting.  The fruiting capsules are green to brown with a shiny black fleshy seed coating called an aril.  This species is a host plant for the Ulysses Butterfly. "							
Melicope rubra	"Rutaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Drier, more seasonal rain forest"	"The Little Evodia, Melicope rubra is a small tree to 8 metres, growing in rainforest from Cape York to North East Queensland as well as parts of New Guinea.  The Little Evodia is an important rainforest food source to many species.  The flowers that develop from September to March along the stems attract nectar loving animals and insects, the shiny black seeds feed birds and mammals and glossy green trifoliate leaves are food for the larvae of the Ulysses butterfly and Emperor Gum Moth. "							
Millettia pinnata	Fabaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.35	Rainforest	"The Pongamia, Millettia pinnata is a small native tree growing to 12 metres.  It is endemic northern Queensland, areas of the Northern Territory as well as parts of New Guinea, Pacific Islands, Malesia, India and South East Asia.  The mostly smooth bark of this deciduous tree is a grey-brown colour. Leaves are a pinkish-red when young, maturing to a glossy light green with lighter undersides.  The pea-shaped pink, light purple or whitish flowers bloom sporadically year-round.  The Pongamia has been used in traditional medicine in India for centuries.  "							
Nauclea orientalis	Rubiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Leichardt Tree, Nauclea orientalis bears spherical clusters of fragrant flowers that develop into golf ball-sized edible but bitter fruits. The yellowish to orange soft wood is also used for timber and in woodcarving and folk medicine."							
Neisosperma kilneri	Apocynaceae	Vulnerable	Vulnerable	Yes	0.09	Notophyll vine forest	"The Neisosperma kilneri is an attractive native tree to 20 metres.  It is found in subtropical rainforest, vine thickets and monsoonal forest along the mid Queensland Coast.  The grey outer bark contains a white latex substance if damaged.  The leaves are a dark green with a golden-brown lower surface and occur in whorls, a ring-like arrangement of leaves from a common point.  Heavily scented cream flowers are borne in April and followed by large orange-red poisonous fruit.  These smooth fruits are highly ornamental and develop in pairs.  The woody endocarp or stone inside the fruit is highly patterned and decorative. "							
Ochrosia elliptica	Apocynaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Foredune vine thickets behind mangroves	"The Elliptic yellowwood, Ochrosia elliptica is a small spreading tree to 9 metres.  It is a native of north-eastern Australia, Lord Howe Island and New Caledonia where it can be found in vine thickets or growing near mangroves.  It has attractive leathery dark green leaves which grow in whorls, a ring-like arrangement leaves from a common point or node of 3 or 4.  Yellowish-white fragrant flowers appear from October to February followed by pairs of poisonous, distinct, glossy red fruit. "							
Olea paniculata	"Oleaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.44	Rainforest and dry vine forest	"The Native olive, Olea paniculata as a bushy tree growing to 30 metres.  This fast-growing species widely distributed through Pakistan, China, tropical Asia and the Pacific Islands.  In Australia it ranges from North East Queensland into New South Wales.  Smooth grey-brown bark covers the occasionally buttressing trunk.  Black olive shaped fruit are a food source for parrot and dove species, the tree itself is a host plant for Butterflies. "							
Owenia venosa	Meliaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Dry vine forest	"The Crows apple, Owenia venosa is a tree to 20 metres.  Endemic to Central Eastern Queensland, it can be found growing in dry rainforest and vine thickets.  The tree produces a dense crown of glossy, dark green leaves. The young plants are easy to identify because the juvenile leaves have a winged rachis, an extension either side of the leaf stalk between leaves. Tiny white flowers are borne from spring to summer followed by red spherical fruit.  Male and female plants grow separately."							
Pandanus brookei	Pandanaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Coastal areas	"Screw Pine, Pandanus brookei is a costal tree for northern Australia which reached 7-10 metres in height.  Pandanus are palm-like however they are not closely related to palm trees.  The roots from a pyramidal tract to hold the trunk. They are dioecious with male and female flowers produced on different plants. The flowers of the male tree are 2-3 cm long and fragrant surrounded by narrow, white bracts. The female tree produces flowers with round fruits that are also bract-surrounded. "							
Pararchidendron pruinosum	Mimosaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	"Tropical, sub-tropical, warm temperate, littoral and riverine rainforest"	"Screw Pine, Pandanus brookei is a costal tree for northern Australia which reached 7-10 metres in height.  Pandanus are palm-like however they are not closely related to palm trees.  The roots from a pyramidal tract to hold the trunk. They are dioecious with male and female flowers produced on different plants. The flowers of the male tree are 2-3 cm long and fragrant surrounded by narrow, white bracts. The female tree produces flowers with round fruits that are also bract-surrounded. "							
Pentaceras australe	"Rutaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Dry and subtropical rainforest of coastal districts	"The Penta ash, Pentaceras australe is an Australian rainforest tree can be found growing by streams or dry and littoral rainforest between New South Wales and South East Queensland.  A member of the citrus family, this small to medium-sized tree can grow up to 25 metres.  The easily impressionable grey-brown bark will often show signs of animals tracks and markings across its smooth surface.  Panicles of scented white flowers form from June before developing into a dry flat green carpel.   "							
Petalostigma triloculare	Picrodendraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	"Drier rainforests, often on sandy soil"	"The Bitter bark, Petalostigma triloculare is an attractive large shrub to small tree reaching 3 to 5 metres.  It is found naturally in moist areas and rainforest skirts ranging from Central East Queensland to Central East New South Wales.  The new growth is covered with silky hairs giving it a fury appearance.  Creamy scented flowers are borne in summer on separate male and female trees.  The male flowers have a pleasant lemon fragrance.  The flowers are followed by bright, round orange-red fruits which are poisonous.  It is one of the host plants for the beautiful Copper Jewel butterfly."							
Pinus taeda	"Pinaceae	"	Not listed	Not listed	No	0.26		"The Loblolly pine, Pinus taeda is a large, evergreen, fast growing tree 45 metres.  Native to the United States, it found in a variety of habitats with poorly drained to wet soils from South-Eastern North America to Florida.  It is a broadly conical shaped tree widely used in the timber industry due to its adaptability and quick growth.  It is a habitat and food tree for woodpeckers in its endemic environment.     "							
Pittosporum angustifolium	Pittosporaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Mallee communities, alluvial flats, ridges, as well as dry woodland"	"The Weeping Pittosporum, Pittosporum angustifolium is a shrub or small tree to 10 metres with a graceful weeping habit.   Widespread throughout inland Australia, this slow growing tree can be found in isolation or small pockets of low numbers throughout most states.  This drought-hardy tree produces a large number or heavily fragrant, yellow flowers in spring followed by an attractive orange fruit.  "							
Pittosporum multiflorum	Pittosporaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Orange thorn, Pittosporum multiflorum understorey shrub to 3 metres tall.  Found commonly from Queensland to Northern New South Wales in rainforest or wet sclerophyll forest.  A stiff, heavily branched, spiny shrub with mostly toothed leaves.  The foliage attracts small birds as the spines protect them from larger animals.  Tiny white flowers appear from spring to summer followed by a round orange berry.  The Orange thorn is a food plant for Bright Copper butterfly."							
Planchonella australis	Sapotaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Rainforest	"The Black apple, Planchonella australis is a medium to tall rainforest tree of the family Sapotaceae.  Reaching a height of 30 metres, this species ranges from Queensland to New South Wales along the eastern coastline of Australia.  The leaves are somewhat diamond shaped with a shiny green discolorous leaf, lower surface paler than above.  Purplish back fruit is eatable and said to be pleasant tasting although often contaminated by larvae.  "							
Pleiogynium timoriense	Ancardiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.84	Rainforest	"The Burdekin plum, Pleiogynium timoriense is a tropical, rainforest tree endemic to north-eastern Queensland.  Reaching up to 20 metres in the wild this tree is often smaller in cultivation. The fruit is considered as bush tucker used for jams. "							
Podocarpus elatus	"Podocarpaceae	"	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.88	Rainforest	"Brown pine, Podocarpus elatus is a fasting growing tree and reach height of up to 40 m.  Native to eastern NSW and eastern QLD the fruit of the brown pine is a bushfood. Large, fleshy purple-black berries ipen between March and July."							
Polyscias elegans	Araliaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Celery wood, Polyscias elegans is an ornamental fast-growing tree to 25 metres.  Native to rainforests of Eastern Australia, it produces large leaves that when crushed are said to give off the scent of celery.  The bark is smooth when young becoming textured and rough when mature.  Small flowers hang in large branched clusters through the middle of the year followed by an abundance of attractive shiny purple-black fruit.  Numerous birds and butterflies utilize this tree including the larvae of Dark Pencilled-blue butterfly. "							
Pouteria australis	Sapotaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Black apple, Pouteria australis is a medium to tall rainforest tree native to Queensland and New South Wales. In its native rainforest conditions, it can grow up to 25m in height, but will likely reach between 10-15m in a domestic garden. Black apple is protogynous; that is, the female parts of the tree mature before the male parts, to promote outcrossing. The fruit is the largest of all the local bush tucker fruits. The actual fruits resemble apples or plums in both size and appearance and may be eaten raw."							
Pterospermum acerifolium	Malvaceae	Not listed	Not listed	No	0.18	Forested stream banks	"The two bayur trees were planted in early 1939 by Sir Leslie Orme Wilson and Lady Winifred. Sir Leslie was the former Governor of Bombay (today's Mumbai) who had a distinguished military and political career, including the Boer War and Gallipoli.  "							
Rhodamnia argentea	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Malletwood, Rhodamnia argentea is a mid-sized rainforest tree of eastern Australia growing up to 30 metres.  It can be found growing in alluvium areas and other nutrient rich soils from New South Wales to North Queensland.  The bark is a papery brown to grey that develops a cracked and fissured appearance with age.  White flowers form in summer followed by round black berries.  The fruit is eaten by several bird species including the green catbird and regent bowerbird."							
Rhodomyrtus psidioides	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The Native guava, Rhodomyrtus psidioides is a pioneer rainforest tree to 12 metres.  Found in sclerophyll forest, warm temperate and subtropical rainforest along the eastern coast from New South Wales to Queensland, occasionally inland.  The leaves are scented if crushed with young shoots covered in fine pale hairs.  White flowers are produced in spring and summer followed by white or pink, fleshy berry. "							
Rhodosphaera rhodanthema	Ancardiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.53	Rainforest and dry vine forest	"Deep yellowwood, Rhodosphaera rhodanthema is a rainforest tree native to eastern Australia reaching up to 15-20 meters.  Used as a cabinet timber tree the trunk is usually cylindrical or slightly buttressed."							
Rhus taitensis	Ancardiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09									
Spathodea campanulata subsp. nilotica	"Bignoniaceae	"	Not listed	Not listed	No	0.09		"The African tuliptree, Spathodea campanulata subsp. Nilotica is a large upright tree growing to 25 metres.  It is a fast-growing evergreen tree with a spreading crown Native to tropical western Africa. It can be distinguished from Spathodea campanulata by hairs on the flowers and leaves.  Compound leaves are arranged in pairs along the branches with bright orange-red showy flowers borne at the tips.  The African tulip tree is regarded as a significant environmental weed in Queensland due to its invasive nature.  African tulip trees are extremely harmful to native stingless bees which are poisoned while collecting pollen.   "							
Stenocarpus sinuatus	Proteaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.14	Rainforest	"The Firewheel tree, Stenocarpus sinuatus is a large (40m) highly ornamental rainforest tree endemic to QLD and NSW.  Flowering from February to March this tree is named after the bright red flowers which are formed in wheel-like clusters."							
Sterculia quadrifida	Malvaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.35	Rainforest and dry vine forest	"The Peanut tree, Sterculia quadrifida grows up to 18 metres and is found in dry rainforests from NSW to Northern Australia as well as parts of New Guinea. A native bush tucker plant, the showy bright red fruit contains up to 8 edible black seeds that taste similar to raw peanuts. Small creamy-yellow lemon-scented flowers form in racemes attract birds and butterflies."							
Streblus brunonianus	Moraceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest	"The Whalebone tree, Streblus brunonianus is a medium size tree growing up to 30 metres, although often smaller.  Ranging from The Torres Strait Islands thorough to New South Wales, it is found in in rainforest and gallery forests, a forest formed along rivers or wetlands.  From December to April the Whalebone tree produces a yellow to red berry popular with Doves and King Parrots."							
Syncarpia glomulifera subsp. glomulifera	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.18	Open forest	"The Turpentine tree, Syncarpia glomulifera when mature this large tree can reach up to 55 metres in height and a trunk diameter up to 1.5 metres. When cut tree exudes a clear reddish liquid along resinous liquid which gives it the common name of turpentine. This tree however is not a true turpentine and it is not flammable, nor does it smell like turpentine.  This tree is popular for timber production. The heartwood of this tree is strong, durable and the most resistant timber in the world to damage by fire."							
Syncarpia hillii	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Open forest	"The Satinay, Syncarpia hillii grows in restricted stands in coastal areas of southern Queensland. The largest stand is on Fraser Island. Satinay prefers deep sandy soils with a shallow water table. As with the Turpentine tree (Syncarpia glomulifera subsp. glomulifera) located close to this tree when cut this tree exudes a clear reddish liquid along resinous liquid."							
Syzygium australe	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest and fringing forest	"The Brush cherry, Syzygium australe is a subtropical and warm-temperate rainforest tree ranging from New South Wales to Queensland.  Reaching over 25 metres in its natural habitat, the rounded and bright, glossy green tree is smaller in cultivation. White flowers are followed by as mass of fleshy, red fruit.  Fruit can be eaten from the tree or made into a condiment. The brush cherry is an important food source for nectivorous birds and insects as well as fruit eating birds and mammals. "							
Syzygium bungadinnia	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforests and gallery forests	"Satinash, Syzygium bungadinnia is rainforest tree endemic to Cape York Peninsular. It occurs in rainforests and gallery forests.  This tree is not commercially used for timber production however it has been identified as having properties which would make it useful as a structural timber. "							
Syzygium francisii	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.70	"Rainforest, riparian forest"	"The Giant water gum, Syzygium francisii Syzygium francisii is a medium to large size tree that can reach over 30 metres in height.  A common native species between New South Wales and Queensland, it is found in rainforest and on nutrient rich alluvial soils.  Trunks are covered with shedding, scaly reddish to light brown bark and have noticeably buttressed base.  Pinkish new growth matures to glossy green leaves that are drawn out into a long point at the tip known as a “drip tip”.  This has adapted to channel rainwater to the roots. The fruit purple berry with an unpleasant taste. "							
Syzygium hemilamprum	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.26	Rainforest	"Broad-leaved Lilly Pilly, Syzygium hemilamprum is a medium-to-large rainforest tree endemic to eastern QLD as well as the NT and northern NSW. It forms a dense crown with a mass of constrating white flowers and fruit."							
Syzygium luehmannii	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.53	Rainforest	"The Small-leaved lilly pilly, Syzygium luehmannii is a medium sized ornamental rainforest tree with glossy green foliage growing up to 30 metres in natural conditions.   Cream flowers are borne in summer followed by large decorative pink to red fruit.  These can be eaten straight from the tree or used for condiments. The tree is a valuable food source for birds, butterflies, and bees. "							
Syzygium moorei	Myrtaceae	Vulnerable	Vulnerable	Yes	0.26	Rainforest	"The Durobby, Syzygium moorei is a rare sub-tropical rainforest tree reaching up to 40 metres in height, ranging from North East New South Wales to South East Queensland. The bark can be a grey-brown or reddish in colour.  Pinkish orange flowers form in summer and are cauliflorous, flower and fruit form on the main stems or woody trunks rather than from new growth and shoots.  Flowers are followed by white fruit popular with birds. "							
Syzygium oleosum	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.35	Rainforests and wet sclerophyll forests	"Blue Lilly Pilly, Syzygium oleosum is native to eastern Australian rainforests and wet sclerophyll forests. It is usually a small tree, 4 to 15 m tall. The leaves have oil dots and are distinctly aromatic when crushed, with aromas reminiscent of mango."							
Syzygium smithii	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Lilly pilly, Syzygium smithii is native to eastern Australia. This species is widely cultivated in Australia and numerous cultivars are available (e.g. 'Mallee Hedge', 'Hedgemaster', 'Allyn Magic', 'Minipilly' and 'Hot Flush'). "							
Syzygium tierneyanum	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"The River cherry or Bamaga satinash, Syzygium tierneyanum is a medium sized rainforest tree native to northern Australia, New Guinea to th e Solomon Islands and Vanuatu. This species usually grows in rain forest or gallery forest along creeks and watercourses."							
Tabebuia sp.	"Bignoniaceae	"	Not listed	Not listed	No	0.09		Tabebuia is native to the American tropics and subtropics from Mexico and the Caribbean to Argentina.  The genus is mostly known for those that are cultivated as flowering trees used as popular street trees. 							
Terminalia arenicola	Combretaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Beach forest close to sea level	"Beach almond, Terminalia arenicola is native to Queensland, occurring in Cape York Peninsula and North East Queensland. The Beach almond grows in beach forest close to sea level. The flowers produce a fetid odour which most people find unpleasant. "							
Terminalia sp.	Combretaceae	Least concern	Not listed		0.09									
Tipuana tipu	Fabaceae	Not listed	Not listed	No	0.09	"Valleys and mountain forests up to 2,900 m"	"Rosewood or tipuana tree, Tipuana tipu has been planted all over the world as an ornamental street tree and garden plant. In Australia it was originally planted in the 1970s in Queensland’s suburban gardens and streets.  It is native to southern Bolivia."							
Toechima tenax	Sapindaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Brush teak, Toechima tenax is a rainforest tree native to eastern Australia. Reaching up to 18 metres tall the trunk is irregular, grey and smooth with the base of the tree usually buttressed.  The creamy white flowers are formed in April – June."							
Toona ciliata	Meliaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Rainforest	"Red cedar, Toona ciliate is a fast-growing deciduous tree. It grows to between 10 m - 30 m in height and is widely planted for its use as a timber tree and its ability to grow rapidly. "							
Vitex lignum-vitae	Lamiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Dry, sub-tropical or tropical rainforest"	"Yellow Hollywood, Vitex lignum-vitae is a rainforest tree native to eastern Australia.  A medium tree growing to 30m this tree can be identified by its creamy or brown, with horizontal lines and fissures. "							
Vitex melicopea	Lamiaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	"Drier, more seasonal rain forest"	"The Northern vitex, Vitex melicopea is endemic to (found only in) Queensland. Grows in gallery forest and drier, more seasonal rain forest. This tree produces bright pink globular fruit."							
Waterhousea floribunda	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	1.93	Rainforest	"The Weeping lilly pilly, Waterhousia floribunda is a large rainforest tree reaching up to 30 meters.  Native to Eastern Australia this tree naturally grows along streams.   It has a light weeping habit and attractive wavy edged leaves making it a popular ornamental tree used commonly in street scaping.  In summers it forms white flowers followed by green fruits which are a food source for birds. "							
Xanthorrhoea glauca	Xanthorrhoeaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.09	Woodland on steep edges and sides of gorges	"Xanthorrhoea glauca, known as the grass tree, is widespread in eastern Australia. X. glauca is a slow growing species. In its natural environment it is expected to only grow one to two centimeters a year."							
Xanthostemon chrysanthus	Myrtaceae	Least concern	Not listed	Yes	0.35	Open forest or Rainforest	"Golden penda, Xanthostemon chrysanthus is endemic to (found only in) north eastern Queensland. This species is renowned for its showy yellow blooms which have made it a popular garden plant.  "							
Xanthostemon oppositifolius	Myrtaceae	Vulnerable	Vulnerable	Yes	0.09	Notophyll and microphyll vineforest	"The Southern penda, Xanthostemon oppositifolius is a tall subtropical rainforest tree which grows to 40 m in height.  It produces whit to creamy flowers which are grouped together in clusters. Populations of Southern penda have been threatened by timber harvesting and habitat clearing. The Southern penda is listed as vulnerable in Queensland and known to occur in only three localities across South-east Queensland. "							
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
														
